# Dungeon Name

*Quick summary about the Dungeon*

## Short Description

*What is this dungeon about? What public information is available to the players about this adventure?
This is what quest-givers will tell the party when offering the adventure*

### Current Status

Is this dungeon still unexplored? Have previous players changed the situation of this dungeon?

## Scouting the Location
What can the players see from nearby [[01) Homebrew Alley/Content/04) Rules/Hex|hexes]], when approaching the dungeon?

---

## The Dungeon Rooms

### The Entrance
- This is the introduction of the dungeon and the first step to it. 
- The first room of the dungeon should answer the question "*why hasn't someone already cleared the dungeon before? What's the obstacle?"
- Put a simple fight here that starts the narrative for the players. It will make them understand what's the general situation and what kind of monsters/creatures are they going to encounter in this dungeon.
- If you prefer to have the party clear a puzzle first before fighting, you can swap this room with [[#The Puzzle]]

### The Puzzle
- If we consider the Entrance and its fight to be a physical obstacle, this room represents a mental obstacle.
- To continue going on, the players will need to clear a puzzle, which can be needing to find a hidden key for the door, start a special ritual, or just having to find the hidden entrance to the next section of the dungeon.
- This room can be exchanged with the Entrance based on your scenario (maybe the players needs to first gain access to the door that leads to the dungeon with a special key, and inside that door a group of skeletons guards the place)

### The Setback
- The party has managed to clear the initial minor obstacles, and now the first major one appears.
- The purpose of this room is to make the players' progress temporarily halt or even regress, by putting them against a difficult situation they need to clear.
- It can be another fight, it can be a trap of some sort, or a puzzle, it doesn't matter.
- If you are preparing this dungeon with a gimmick in mind, this is the best place to act on it (for example, if you're inspired to make a Crypt dungeon, put some skeleton here with a Necromancer raising them. If you want a social betrayal scene, put a curse that forces your players one against the others, and so on).

### The Climax
- Simply put: the boss fight.
- This room's purpose is to be the grand finale of your dungeon, the last obstacle before the reward.
- Most commonly here will be a final boss that your party wants to defeat to reach the treasure, but you can add some twists to it if you want to make it more special: maybe the boss is open to a deal with the players, or a third party intervenes in the fight, either as allies or enemies.
- It doesn't need to be a straight up boss fight but it needs to be something big and memorable that the players will enjoy defeating.

### The Resolution
- This is the end of the dungeon, the players have managed to clear it and it's now time to conclude the story and reap the rewards.
- If you want a final twist you can decide to add some minor complications like traps on the chests, or a mimic.
- The players are now exhausted from the previous encounters so it's not reccommended to put any major obstacle here, as it will ruin the experience if a random second final boss appears and kills them after they managed to beat the real one.
- Make the players retrieve the loot, add a complication if you want a final little twist, finish the story and make the party leave the dungeon.